In 2016, Cyclistic launched a successful bike-share oering. Since then, the program has grown to a estimated of 5,824 bicycles that are geotracked and 
locked into a network of 692 stations across Chicago. The bikes can be unlocked from one station and returned to any other stationin the system anytime.

Until now, Cyclistic’s marketing strategy relied on building general awareness and appealing tobroad consumer segments. One approach that helped make these 
things possible was the exibility of its pricing plans: single-ride passes, full-day passes, and annual memberships. Customers who purchase single-ride or 
full-day passes are referred to as casual riders. Customers who purchase annual memberships are Cyclistic members.

Cyclistic’s finance analysts have concluded that annual members are much more profitable than casual riders. And the team believes there is a solid 
opportunity to convert casual riders into members. Casual riders are already aware of the Cyclistic program and have chosen Cyclistic for their mobility needs.

All the data used for the analysis was downloaded from here: https://divvy-tripdata.s3.amazonaws.com/index.html
Using the four csv documents of the four seasons of 2019, because other documents where very heavy or not recent information.
The documents have information such as the rental ID, the initial and final time of use, the gender of the user, the initial and final station ID, among others. 

Documentation of any cleaning or manipulation of data. 
Some of the mention fields have null or empty values, however, the ones that are important for this analysis have all theier cells complete, that is why there was 
not a lot of filtering during the cleaning process. 
Two new columns were added: 
- "TRIP_LENGHT" which is calculated with the difference of the final and initial time of the trip.
- "DAY_OF_WEEK" wich show the day of the week that the service was used for that specific rental ID.

Then a pivot table was added for every woorksheet to show the most important things for further analysis as a summary.

The general key findings about the analysis and the visualizations can be found on the pdf document of this folder and my general recommendations according to 
the desire purpose of the analysis. 

Also in this folder there is an example of the spreadsheets that I modified and analyze ("Divvy_Trips_2019_Q1.xls")
The Rmd document is an r markdown that shows and explain the visualizations maded. 
